The Joe Rogan experience.
Quick question, before I go, because this is coming up in the next time we meet,
I want to ask you about what you think the vaccine are you taking it.
I'll take it. If it works. If I feel that the doctors, uh,
have all gotten their opinions behind it and they think, you know what it is,
it's like an MRN, a vaccine, this new vaccine,
it makes your body think that it doesn't introduce actual COVID into your system
and you fight it off.
It makes your body think that it's COVID and your body builds the proper
proteins to fight it off. A guy explained it to us yesterday.
Nicholas Christakis he's from Yale. Um.
He's a good man. He, uh, he thinks that be boy.
He's a great man. And I won't want you to disparage.
Your mind. No, I'm not disparaging.
He's like he's a certain is so it beat him up. He was soybean. He's a doctor.
Okay.
Anyway, he, uh, he thinks the vaccine will be, uh, very effective. And,
uh, even if you, if it doesn't keep you from getting it,
it'll prevent or hopefully prevent you from getting a bad case of it.
I don't know though. So I'm scared.
Would you, would you,
would you need just the consensus of a body of doctors you trust.
And people's experiences because people have already taken it until people have
taken it, like, what is the experience? And they say that they, you know, had,
uh, they felt like for a few days. That's it now? Is that true?
I mean, who are they? Have you talked to them? What's a few days.
And what do you mean by feel like? Like,
did you try running four days later and you still felt terrible? Like.
So it apparently they're distributing this vaccine almost now. Right?
I don't think it's true.
Totally ready, but it very soon we'll be ready. And uh, if it's effective,
they're gonna encourage people to take it.
But then they say they're going to have it for like doctors and like essential
people.
First. And then, um, it's going to probably people that are high risk, like, Oh.
Yeah. But the thing is, it's going to have people have a sense of like,
there is something that could be done now. Like it's a sense of hope.
It's a sense of progress. It's a sense of like, you know, we,
it was at one time when we didn't even have a thought of a vaccine.
Now we got competitors and on people to think different.
Uh, listen, if it works, we should take it just,
but I know how people get real nervous.
Black people don't with vaccines. I told you that son,
how do you feel about that? Black people don't with no vaccines today?
Well, I mean,
I feel like it's inconclusive because your caveat was I take it if I felt
safe about it. Yeah. That's just, just the thing.
Don't you feel like that same way. Of course. But so now, you know,
for the first time we're learning,
we're learning how it drug the process of a drug, you know,
going through trials, but learning this literally as a nation,
we're all watching this thing. Take place,
accelerated version of it and accelerated version.
Cause usually a vaccine takes multiple years to develop. Yeah.
So this is a really quick to be able to have something this quick and turn it
around and fix it.
Where they find a cure by the end. And you're like, Oh, that's. They doing it.
Well, not a cure, but a vaccine. That's a big deal.
It's the good thing is if another one comes around,
they're going to be more prepared to do something like this quicker, right?
Like I think people needed to really understand that in our lifetime,
something can kill the world's economy and kill hundreds of thousands of people
here and a million people worldwide. I think everybody, I don't think we,
I think we knew it, but I don't think we really expected it. Right.
They knew it.
The Obama administration had prepared for precisely that eventuality.
But I mean, of course we couldn't wrap my mind around.
Even if they told you, even if you watch bill Gates,
speech and Ted talk in 2015,
you would never internalize it and think there's, there's a pandemic coming.
Now we know by now we know there is now the, the,
the we're going to want to invest in the, the,
the medical infrastructure to make sure that they prepare better. Next time.
This is, hopefully people are going to learn from that.
Oh yeah. 100% people, no glasses, nothing. Nothing is going to be new.
There's nothing going to be new about it. No.
Well, the debate is, is largely philosophical, right? I mean, to, to this end,
there's two schools of thought,
one school of thought is just going to be what it's going to be.
And you got to keep moving, like why close anything?
And the other school of thought, which I thought was, you know,
it's more than just a philosophy. It was, it was a science, right?
They remember the premise when they locked us up was we have to wait to catch up
to our medical infrastructure.
So we don't overburden our medical infrastructure.
We got to suppress the disease till we can build up the infrastructure.
And they gave us an early estimate of two weeks.
This is how comedian does when a comedian is doing a real long send. He goes,
one more thing before I go. And then he does it four or five times.
And he realized that was a, guy's going do another hour. Oh yeah.
That's so rude because that's what the pandemic,
the quarantine felt like two more weeks, three more weeks.
Maybe we'll open bars and you know, that kind of.
But there's no way to control it other than create it yourself. Right.
What do you mean? Like the, the whole vibe of the, the scene.
Right? The vibe of which scene depends on.
You said, how do we get used to it? What can we do about it?
He's also saying here's the thing we'd never signed up to let people tell us
that we can and can't take risks or go to work. And by saying that,
if you do it, you can to kill other people. That's what changed the game. Right?
And so everybody has to figure out how much of that they're willing to accept
and how much of that are they not?
And whether or not they're willing to take a shot, um, take this, uh,
this vaccine without, you know,
knowing the longterm effects of it or worrying about the long-term effects of
it. And some people are naturally averse to taking any kind of medication.
They don't want to do it. And other people are like,
if you tell me it's good and all the doctors agree and then it'll help mankind.
I'll do it. That's how I feel.
If I listen polio, okay, doesn't exist anymore.
Smallpox doesn't exist anymore. At least not in the numbers of it used to be.
Right. But that's because of vaccines.
Like the idea that vaccines have done bad things only,
or that they're dangerous. Only it's crazy.
Like vaccines are the responsible for the giant vaccine.
At the core that says you just trust. Do you trust these sources?
And people realize that they're at the mercy.
That was someone that they don't necessarily trust. Right? That's the,
that's the right.
Well maybe, maybe that's the problem.
Faced and don't go outside. I'll tell you when to come out. Love of renown liar.
Yeah. Right. Tough one. That was a tough one. It, especially here,
it goes, something really touches something really. So in the core of,
in Americans' identity, like you said, how can you tell me to do this? Yeah.
It's crazy, man. This was a tough one here.
It's a weird one. It makes us redefine what it is to be a person.
Like if all of a sudden you have other people that got elected into a position
of power, that's all they did.
They won a popularity contest and they're dictating whether things go this way
or that way. And they don't necessarily have the right answer.
They just have their own answer.
And Dallas is doing a different that this town and, you know, Washington,
state's doing it different than the Vada. Everyone's doing a different,
but everybody's trying to do it also. Yeah.
But governors can tell you what you can and can't do. It gets real weird.
And I get it. They're trying to keep the hospital numbers down,
but you told us it was going to be two weeks.
Like you guys said two weeks, and now here we are like nine months later.
And everyone's just waiting for only for a vaccine.
And I'm not speaking about, you know, the it's right. If it's wrong,
not speaking about it like that, I'm just saying whatever it was.
That was very difficult. Yeah. That was very difficult. Very difficult.
You know, I was fine, but not knowing when you can work,
not being removed around, not being able to see my mother, you know, you,
you would never thought if someone had told me 11 months ago,
even the night before they,
the last night we went to where we were in Milwaukee. Yes.
It was perhaps the last show,
but it was the last night between shows. Right? It's the two show night, uh,
and the energy had changed.
It went from festive to like people look worried when I got off stage and Tom
Hanks had had it, the one NBA guy who would touch everything and had it.
And then the horn starts bringing it. They're going to shut the country down.
I literally go, that's impossible. That's shut.
We're going to shut down the world. Isn't possible. This is about,
this is what I thought, my initial reaction.
But the energy changed now, I go out and do the second show. And immediately,
I wasn't even think about this earlier at night.
I come out on stage and everybody raise your hand. Hey, I thought about it.
Okay. I start shaking people's hands. Oh, worried. But yeah.
But the day before wouldn't have even been concerned about it,
went into the agreement for 40 minutes and talked to people.
Who've been glued to the television, watching the news. And then they,
they scared the out of me. My behavior changed almost instantly.
It was interesting. I want to get too heavy. I mean,
I'm only hanging out with no, man.
It's not too heavy. That's exactly how I felt about it too.
I remember I shook a dude's hand on a flight.
I was flying to Vegas for the fight.
So it was like one of the last fights before they shut it down. And uh,
some dude goes, I don't know, you want to shake hands? I go,
I'll shake your hand. And we shook hands. He had a mask on already.
And I was like, wow, he was ready to go down. He was,
I think this was the very beginning of March.
This was the first,
the first time I would have been tested in any capacity was when I did just show
that time. That was the first time I had an antibody test or anything.
I would have never expected that here we would be deep into November.
And we're all still kind of.
When this started, he lived in LA. He had no plans to come here.
Yeah. You didn't text him your whole life.
What's interesting about this time. This is another thing we should talk about.
Next time we come, is that the in mass,
it feels like we're rewriting our social contracts. You know, the whole thing.
And COVID is an accelerant on this process that I could
have never imagined. Yeah. You know,
they're locked inside, man. People are stuck in our house with their choices.
Do you like your house? Do you like who you're with? Do you like these things?
You've accumulated. I hope you like them because you stuck with them.
I made great choices. I liked my choices. You know,
when I was faced with it like that, I was like,
I had it much better than many people. But imagine people doing that in mass,
it's pretty powerful. It's pretty powerful. What is this dude with society?
This type of isolation and, and.
And almost forced reflection. Yeah.
Which is not necessarily a bad thing. And.
We've always talked about how life is a rat race, right?
People get just because he's stuck in this rat race, it feels never ending.
It's not good that all these people lost their jobs.
It's not good that all these people are going to lose where they live,
but it might help.
Some people recognize that if you just keep going in this rat race, it just,
it never ends. You got to figure out a way out.
And now is a better time to figure out a way out than ever,
because you kind of have to, you kind of have to,
and society as it existed 10 months ago, it's not the same place.
What's the country. That is a country.
Maybe somewhere in South Pacific or something that measures the,
their successes and nations with what they call their gross national happiness.
Just a totally different premise. What countries are, I can't remember. Maybe,
maybe you'd Google gross. National happiness, Jennifer. Thanks fingers.
There it is. Blue towel. You go, this is a real, this is a real principle.
It's a philosophy guys. The government thinks about this.
This is a philosophy that guides our government of Bhutan and includes an index,
which is used to measure the collective happiness.
This is the metric that they use to define it.
If they try that in America, they turn into an app and it would up everything.
Oh my God, people would just be striving to win the points on the app.
It would make people insane.
They'd get addicted to trying to be a better person.
This is, this is the vast thing. This is a vastly better metric. I'm not,
you know, communist, none of that.
But I think that I know too many people who are very wealthy,
who have what I consider a poor quality of life.
Just because like you say, the wealth is the point. Yeah.
They chased it. They chased it.
And they didn't have any friends. Right? You're very.
Welcome. We are hunting. You love your dog.
Your dog hangs out with you like school. We do.
Your kids likely get kids like you, you you're living in adventure of a life.
Now you're doing the same thing you're doing in LA in a totally different city
jazz because you're following that knowing feeling, I gotta be free.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st to December 1st,
they're going to be available everywhere. But after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking. Go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.
Okay.